# APCS Final Project
THIS DOCUMENT IS REQUIRED
## Group Info
Team Name: Hellenic Tazmanian Empire<br>
Team Members: Dongni (Hellen) Luo and Tazrian Sazzad
## Overview
This project is an astrophysics simulation of stellar evolution, or the life cycle of a star. The simulation contains a visualization of all the main stages of a star's life, including stellar nebula, protostar, main-sequence star, red giant, planetary nebula, supernova, and stellar remnant (white dwarf, neutron star, or black hole). The simulation is moderately interactive, mainly depending on the user to choose the starting density of the molecular cloud, which serves as the basis of a star's life and determines its future path. All the statistics and numbers displayed are calculated using real scientific and astronomical equations and provide an accurate depiction of the star's characteristics at each stage of its life.
## Instructions
The instructions to use this simulation are fairly simple. When you have first opened the simulation, you will see an intro page with stars shooting across the page. Don't worry. Those are just for aesthetic purposes. Now, click the "PLAY" button. You will now see the science simulation page. Here are how to use or understand the features:
1. The first thing you should do is pick a desired density for the starting molecular cloud. Note that this is probably the only time where you can make your own choices before you become embraced in the beauty of learning about science (D:). You can do this by clicking on the slider named "Molecular Cloud Density" in the bottom right corner.
2. After you have chosen the specific density you want, you can go ahead and click on the "Begin Simulation" button, which is located just below the density slider. This will officially activate all of the other features. However, it is important to keep in mind that you can no longer change the molecular cloud density once this button is pressed unless you clicked on the "Reset" button again. This is because a star with a particular initial density can only have one path of stages, and it would not make sense scientifically if you can change the star's mass in the middle of its life cycle. If you feel like the star you have chosen is too boring, you can always feel free to click "Reset" and choose another initial density.
3. On the top left corner, you will see a statistics board that calculates the numerical characteristics of a star. All of the calculations are done based on real scientific and astronomical equations, so they do, in fact, model the real-life conditions accurately. Users can observe the trend of characteristic changes of the star from this statistics board.
4. On the top right corner, you will see a graph that graphs the luminosity of the star as it changes over time. We chose to graph luminosity because it is the most important characteristic of a star that differentiates the particular stage from other stages of the star's life. The graph will update automatically throughout the simulation, so you do not need to manually do anything with it.
5. Below the statistics board, there is a "Learn More" button. If you are someone who is not familiar with the field of stellar evolution or astronomy in general, click on this button so you can get an overview of what is happening in every stage of the star's life cycle. This info board will also update automatically throughout the simulation, so you do not need to manually do anything with it as well.
